feeling stuck depression self-criticism
and raging at people they're all forms
of repressed anger in this video we are
going to talk about what anger actually
is cuz it's not what you think how the
symptoms of repressed anger happen how
to have a great relationship with your
anger and some things to watch out for
and then at the very end we're going to
give you an experiment that you can run
so that you can have a new relationship
with your anger so let's start with what
anger actually is the way to think about
anger is that there is a tube of energy
moving through you or an emotional
experience that you're having
and if you constrict it or resist
against it or try to repress it it Kinks
the tube in different areas and if it's
Kink this way it sounds like this I'm
not angry and if it Kinks this way it's
nice dress and if it's kinked this way
it's you son of
a and if it's Kink this way it's I'm
such an [__] I'm I'm so bad why do I
always [__] up so the way it's kinked
tells you the symptoms that you're going
to have if anger is
unkinked it is really a deep expression
of love we do not get angry at anything
that we do not have care for right so we
wouldn't get angry if something like
brushed up against us in the subway but
if somebody like hurt our kid we would
get angry because we have a deep care
for that and so if that anger is
unresisted or if it's met with a
tremendous amount of Love is another way
to say that then your anger looks like
Martin Luther King anger or it looks
like Gandhi anger it looks like anger
that that is hey I am here in love but
I'm not going to accept this it's like a
very clear boundary and that's what
anger ends up being when it's completely
unrestricted so often times in our
society what people say is anger which
is somebody yelling at somebody else
violently that that's what we think
anger is but that's not anger that's
repressed anger it's anger where the
hose has been
kinked if you can't express it one way
you're going to express it another if
you can't just say oh wow I'm angry
because mom wouldn't let me get angry
then you're going to put anger at
yourself you're going to criticize
yourself or it could be that you had a
dad who was a yeller who always screamed
you said I'm never going to be like that
or you felt internally so out of control
when you got angry you're like I don't
want to feel that there's a lot of ways
that you might have learned to constrict
your
anger let's go into how to have a good
relationship with anger so for some
reason which is just mindboggling when
you see it most humans think that
there's two options I get angry at
somebody or I don't get
angry but there's this like other option
that's like iaz I go get angry and I
don't do it at anybody I don't I don't
yell at anybody I don't break [__] I
don't destroy stuff I just allow that
anger to move through my body that's
another option and somehow or another
most of us just don't even see it until
you see it and then it's like oh it's
just so obvious and so a great story
about this is when I was coming to terms
with with my own anger and learning to
move it I was like I was like 35 37
years old or something and I had two
little girls and every time I made
pancakes I was like okay I'm going to
make some pancakes and no matter what
like when everything was about to burn
and everything was going wrong that's
when the kids would ask me questions
that's when my girls would ask me
questions and they did that one day and
I stopped and I went I'm angry I'm angry
I'm angry I'm angry and my little girl
looked at me and she said oh that was
some good anger dad because she knew it
wasn't anger at her she knew that anger
was safe and there's nothing wrong with
it but very few of us have ever been
taught that what we've been taught is
anger is the way somebody tries to
control us and so it's a bad
thing so the first thing is to to have a
good relationship is to realize oh you
can express anger without hurting
anybody that's the most important thing
the second thing is to not judge your
anger so typically if we allow ourselves
to express anger we expect anger to look
like logic and if it doesn't then we get
judgmental of it right like anger does
not talk like logic logic talks like a
plus b equals c anger
goes
[Music]
Clarity that's how anger moves if you
let the anger move all the way through
then you get this idea people feel stuck
they move some anger they feel unstuck
people feel like they're beating
themselves up they move some anger
they're not beating themselves up as
much anymore but if you expect it to be
logical and judge it if it isn't or
judge yourself for having it or judge
the thoughts that are coming through
with it then you'll never move the anger
you'll never get to the clarity on the
other
side now let's move into the things to
watch out for when you're working with
it and we've covered these a little bit
already but let's go into them with a
little more depth the first one is do
not get angry in a way that's going to
create some shame and the two ways that
typically people do that is they get
angry at
somebody or they break something or
destroy something that's important to
them while getting angry and either one
they get to say oh see anger isn't safe
oh see anger is bad oh see I'm hurting
somebody with anger and so it reifies
that Loop of anger is something that's
not good to do so that's the first thing
so make sure that when you get anger you
do it in a way that is loving and caring
for you and everybody else around you
the second thing is studies will show
this if you start expressing anger
especially if you haven't expressed any
for a long time it's like a lot of anger
is going to possibly come up so you're
going to be noticing oh my God I'm
getting angry at this I'm getting angry
at that which just means you need to
move more anger in a safe place now
eventually that starts going down it's
like a champagne bottle the pop happens
all the champagne comes out and then you
can learn to just enjoy it and and have
the full experience of the champagne
it's the same with anger as that channel
becomes unconstricted anger just looks
like this oh no I'm not I'm not willing
to accept that oh that doesn't work for
me it's just clear boundaries and it's
Clarity of like oh I'm going to do this
and I'm not going to be stopped because
of what other people think right that
that's what happens when that anger is
completely unmoved it doesn't mean that
you don't have to get angry every once
in a while but it the kind of it that
Big E and flow of anger dissipates and
then anger just becomes a very cohesive
part of your life and it's a another ex
of Your Love in the
world moving anger for the first time
can be a little bit tricky so that's
something that we do in courses and that
experiment isn't going to be here but
there's a great way to just get started
with your anger the experiment is simply
sit down and write like free write
non-stop writing without any thinking
something that you're angry at just
anger anger anger anger anger you know
use the word [__] and get angry and [__]
and ah like fully write but don't do
anything and just do the free right
and if you look at the neurological
studies of people doing free writing it
allows them to kind of go past their
logical brain so it's very useful in
that way and you get some movement in
your body which makes it helpful but the
important piece here is that you can't
allow the judgment to come in or expect
the anger to be a specific way so your
brain might say something like that
doesn't make any sense that you're angry
and the answer is like yes it doesn't
but I'm just going to listen to it and
see what happens or you're going to say
something like you have no reason to be
angry you're right emotions aren't
rational that's how it works okay great
and you're just going to keep on writing
and if you allow yourself to write like
that at some point you're going to get
to a Moment of clarity you're going to
see something that you hadn't seen
before you're going to have some
breakthrough and so you just keep on
writing until you get that breakthrough
so the experiment is to do that and I
would suggest every other day for a
while but definitely do it until you
find a way to do that writing that gets
you the Breakthrough which is just a way
to do the writing without the Judgment
without telling it to be one way or
another thing without any pre-editing
just letting it flow out thanks for
watching the video I hope you got a lot
out of it if you liked it and you want
more hit like And subscribe and if you
have anything you want us to cover just
leave us a comment
[Music]